Well, I had contacted Admiral Bobby Ray Inman, who was the head of the National Security
Agency in the United States, deputy director at CIA, director of Naval Intelligence and
a variety of intelligence posts, a technologist and clearly someone that if this was really
accurate, that there really were UFOs and non-human intelligence around, this is a man
who had to know.
So I was able to contact him thanks to a contact through Admiral Lord Hill Norton here in the
U.K. and this conversation, he alarmingly not only indicated that these issues were covered
under national secrecy laws, but that the United States government did in fact have
possession of the hardware associated with this.
In other words, this was an actual physical phenomenon as to...
A craft, a spaceship.
Several of them, and they were in operational condition.
The paper incident we were involved in, we were just under a mile and a half of water
north Atlantic.
What had happened, they had picked up a...
There's a survey vehicle working in the north Atlantic that had picked up some radioactive
signal.
It was almost a perfect symmetric piece of metal with marking around the edge and it
was just a triangular shape, but no glass, nothing that would appear to be a hatch or
a cockpit of any type.
From Roswell in 1947 to Jake Barber in 2024, on this channel we have discussed extensively
UFO crash retrieval operations performed by UFO legacy programs involving the United States
Army and Air Force.
Over the past decades, these retrievals are alleged to have occurred over the continental
United States, Mexico, Peru, Vietnam, the former Soviet Union, China, and numerous lands
around the globe.
In several U.S. incidents, rapid reaction response teams are detailed to fly in via
helicopter, drive in via flatbed truck, or utilize any vehicle system to retrieve non-human
craft and transport them to clandestine above and below ground military installations.
But what about retrieval operations that must be conducted in the oceans of our planet?
What happens when UFOs crash into water or USOs, unidentified submerged objects must
be recovered?
How are such operations conducted in the most mysterious corners of our planet where only
roughly 26% of our oceans floors have been mapped?
This would of course require the most powerful seafaring military on the planet, the United
States Navy, and it's a measurable special access programs, internal intelligence offices,
corporate programs, and partnerships with shadowy U.S. intelligence apparatuses.
What does the Navy just retrieve UFO and USOs in our water, or do they, like many retrieval
instances we have covered on this channel involving the Army and Air Force, additionally
engage in storage, exploitation, and reverse engineering of technologies of unknown origin?
For this reason, I want to dive in and explore the modus operandi, operational history, and
key players in U.S. UFO Navy legacy programs.
On the research we will explore in this project, I theorize naval UFO programs can be delegated
to four major components of operation, monitor, collect, store, and exploit.
These operations are likely conducted out of the Office of Naval Research and Office
of Naval Intelligence in conjunction with U.S. Special Forces Command, SOCOM, shadowy intelligence
organizations like the highly secretive National Underwater Reconnaissance Office and Navy
Special Program, and involve U.S. naval stations like NAWC China Lake and NSWC Crane, while
engaging with defense contractors and FFRDCs such as Lockheed Martin for utilization of
their now-retired deep-submergence rescue vehicles Mystic and Avalon.
This investigation will explore in tremendous detail the three components of naval UFO programs
I outlined above, UFO and USO collection, NHI craft storage, and technologies of unknown
origin, TUO, exploitation.
One major cornerstone I theorize exists in naval UFO programs, monitor, will be largely
emitted from today's exploration.
While the topic of possible undersea UFO bases or installations is well worth investigating
in the future, I have covered the topic of USO reports twice already on this channel.
These include discussion of OPNAF 3820, a naval regulation restricting maritime UFO reporting.
With that being said, let us look beyond the veil to analyze naval UFO legacy programs.
Hey guys, it's UAP Gerb, and I am thrilled for you to join me today as we take a direct
investigation into UFO legacy programs under the United States Navy.
We will direct our focus on three key pillars relevant to today's discussion, collection,
origin, exploitation of non-human craft and technology.
In this investigation, we will analyze the alleged structure of naval UFO programs, study
key figures associated with said programs, evaluate a handful of incredibly intriguing
USO retrieval cases, and identify naval installations alleged to hold non-human craft and biologics.
I've been sitting on this information for quite a while now, and I felt quite nervous
about it because the retrieval program undertaken by the CIA and elements of the US Navy is
probably one of the most highly guarded secrets in the US government, and those protecting
it can be quite nasty, and I was warned about that.
On 20 September 2024, excellent UK-based journalist Christopher Sharpe in the Liberation
Times posted an article titled, quote, Paradigm changing UFO transparency legislation fails
in Congress for second consecutive year.
The piece discussed the unfortunate dismissal of the UAP Disclosure Act in the Fiscal Year
2025 National Defense Authorization Act.
This exclusion of the UAPDA is another topic for another day as such bombshell legislation
could very well have begun the unraveling of UAP legacy program secrecy.
The September 20 article pivots rapidly discussing multiple programs orchestrated by the CIA's
Directorate of Science and Technology and its Directorate of Operations, alongside Department
of Defense and Department of Energy components that have for decades bypassed democratic
oversight to retrieve advanced technologies of unknown origin.
If this CIA DS&T sounds familiar to you, it is likely because this CIA component has been
accused on myriad occasions by Chris Sharpe and Dr. Eric Davis, as directly participating
in and obfuscating data around UFO retrievals.
For example, Glenn Gaffney, former CIA DS&T director, has been labeled as the gatekeeper
who ceased Lockheed Martin's attempts to divest UFO materials, likely the 1953 Kingman
Arizona crash.
To the OSAP program in 2008, additionally, former CIA DS&T deputy director Doug Wolfe
aided in founding the CIA OGA, or Office of Global Access in 2003.
Wolfe and the OGA have been accused by Sharpe and others as participating in retrievals
outside of the United States with JSOC, Joint Special Operations Command.
Anyways, the 20 September Sharpe article proceeds to detail some truly startling revelations.
Quote,
Multiple programs are understood to be orchestrated by the CIA's Directorate of Science and Technology
and its Directorate of Operations, including its Maritime Branch, alongside components
of the National Underwater Reconnaissance Office, U.S. Navy, National Reconnaissance
Office, Space Command, National Geospatial Intelligence Agency, and Joint Special Operations Command.
According to Liberation Times sources, missions carried out by these programs include the
retrieval of objects from beneath the oceans, involving the CIA's Directorate of Operations,
the National Underwater Reconnaissance Office, coordinated between the CIA and U.S. Navy,
United States Special Operations Command, and submersibles from the Woods Hole Oceanographic
Institute.
Additionally, the retrieval of objects on foreign soil is conducted with the involvement
of the CIA's Office of Global Access and Joint Special Operations Command, end quote.
Sharpe directly named military and intelligence organizations involved with ocean-based retrieval,
including two institutions almost never discussed, the Neuro-National Underwater Reconnaissance
Office and WHOI, the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute.
But before we break down these statements, I must detail the evolution of this article
as it allows us to study in Chris Sharpe's own words, information detrimental to his
safety.
By 22 September 2024, the article was revised, redacting all information about the Navy, Neuro,
Woods Hole, NGA, NRO, JSOC, etc.
The new Bear Bones edition still discussed the CIA, DS&T, DOD, and DOE, but all true
actionable data was stripped from the piece.
Sharpe was accused by some Twitter users as making quote-unquote stealth edits to remove
information from the article, but he responded by stating quote, this is sourced information.
There is a real, extremely dangerous reason little information has been released about
such programs.
Content from the article was removed because of the threats posed to me, end quote.
By 25 September 2024, five days after the original posting, Sharpe would once again edit the article
and say quote, okay, so someone has recklessly put me at extreme risk, so I have updated
last week's article relating to the UAPDA, reverting back to details previously mentioned.
This time, the details are far more specific, so here it is, the alleged undersea retrieval
program, end quote.
This third edit is quite similar to the first piece, but expands on multiple departments
and agencies named specialized assets and expertise to carry out undersea craft retrievals.
In this latest iteration, Sharpe states for operations, Woods Hole provided deep submergence
vehicles to quote support retrieval efforts, end quote.
Deep submerged rescue vehicles or DSRV will be a crucial aspect of a USO retrieval operation
covered much later on in this project.
The third iteration does powerfully claim the undersea craft or quote, transfer to the
office of naval research, which subsequently hands them over to defense contractors for
detailed analysis, end quote.
From this article, we can extract a powerful thesis, the US Navy works in conjunction with
the CIA, DS&T, alongside JSOC or SOCOM forces, intelligence agencies such as the NRO, NGA,
and shadowy NRO, as well as defense RDT&E facilities and private contractors to retrieve
and store non-human craft found deep undersea.
But let's really break this down, analyzing the targeted role of the CIA's Office of
Global Access alongside JSOC and global soil-based crash retrievals.
We can assume a similar structure for undersea retrievals where the CIA, DS&T, serves as the
logistics coordinator while JSOC provides men-at-arms, industrial security, human intelligence, etc.
In this apparatus, the NRO and NGA would harness reconnaissance satellites to provide SIGINT
or signals intelligence to retrieval teams while the shadowy National Underwater Reconnaissance
Office provides unknown methods of underwater reconnaissance.
In such a system outlined by SHARP, retrieval operations would be done in tandem with the
US Navy and contractors such as Lockheed Martin and their DSRV and Dry Submersible, as well
as non-profit research facilities such as Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute and their
many deep-submergence vehicles.
Finally, in this hypothesized naval UFO program, craft would be taken to various Office of
Naval Research locations before being transferred to defense contractors to study.
But in this program, I do think SHARP is missing a key step here.
Many speak on joint USG contractor UFO legacy programs.
But a cornerstone of my work has been discussing the missing intermediary, federally funded
research and development centers, FFRDCs, and university-affiliated research centers,
UARCs.
I will not bore returning viewers of these details, but I often speak on how these semi-private
government-controlled RDT and E-Centers act as liaison between USG-slash-DOD and US Defense
Contractors for UFO Reverse Engineering and Material Exploitation Programs.
Such institutions would serve as subject matter experts and provide necessary R&D work on
project materials.
This would in turn keep knowledge access in T-U-O programs quite strict, only allowing
contractor personnel with a need to know full insights into the full extent of the non-human
materials on which the programs focus.
The Navy employs numerous UARCs and FFRDCs often entwined with unacknowledged special
access programs, special access programs, and controlled access programs.
Such UARCs include the Applied Physics Laboratories at John Hopkins University and the University
of Washington, as well as the Applied Research Laboratories at the Universities of Hawaii
at Minoa, University of Texas at Austin, and Pennsylvania State University.
Penn State's UARC was established in 1945 by Penn State President Dr. Eric A. Walker.
Dr. Walker was named by physicist and consultant to the DOD Research Board Dr. Robert Sarbacher
as participating in 1950's UFO retrieval and reverse engineering programs alongside
Dr. Vannevar Bush.
Walker would be contacted by various UFO researchers in the 1980s and make some startling revelations,
not only admitting he himself was present at the 1965 Kexpert, Pennsylvania UFO crash,
but also claiming he knew of the Majestic 12 and to engage in UFO legacy programs one
would need to know about ESP, Extrasensory Perception.
It is interesting how a former TRW board member and founder of Penn State's UARC would essentially
confess he was part of a UFO legacy program.
And by the way, as recently as 2013 the Office of Naval Research has displayed a keen interest
in studying ESP.
The O&R would even publish a quote, revolutionary program looking into six cents among humans
to train personnel on intuitive decision making, end quote.
Additionally, according to the testimony of Randy Anderson, the Navy, specifically the
Naval Surface Warfare Center Crane and contractor SAIC, has engaged in recovered technologies
that respond to human consciousness at the underground off-world technologies division.
The Navy also engages in a tremendous roster of programs with FFRDC's Well Worth Our Interest,
primarily the Center for Naval Analysis run by the CNA Corporation based out of Crystal
City, Arlington, Virginia.
Returning viewers will recall how a recently implicated Crystal City and a likely massive
underground facility beneath a neighborhood in Pentagon as a major center for UFO legacy
programs SAPs and USAPs.
Many of the acronyms sharp listed in his work regarding undersea retrievals need much further
analysis.
And as we move forward in this investigation, it is paramount to recognize the Navy has
indeed participated in at least one acknowledged USO retrieval operation.
Recall the 1962 Bluegill Triple Prime detonation and subsequent UFO recovery discussed by late
presidential advisor Harold Malmgren.
This event took place during Operation Fishbowl, a series of high altitude nuclear tests.
The Bluegill Triple Prime nuclear test accidentally disabled a nearby UFO that went careening
into the waters below.
The downed craft or quote unquote pod was searched for and recovered by the USS Safeguard.
Historical logs from the Safeguard discussed the vessel alongside others such as the USS
engage steaming to the water crash location, searching in a square grid pattern and employing
divers to recover a quote unquote pod.
During net recovery of this pod, the Safeguard actually lost power and the pod was released
for helicopter pickup.
This is a massively consequential case I would like to explore in more detail later
on, but let's continue with this investigation.
I would be willing to wager most watching this channel have heard of the National Reconnaissance
Officer NRO.
The NRO is considered alongside the CIA, NSA, DIA and NGA to be one of the big five US intelligence
agencies.
This agency within the US DOD has historically designed, built, launched and operated reconnaissance
satellites providing signals intelligence to the NSA, imagery intelligence to the NGA
and measurement and signature intelligence to the DIA.
David Grush worked for both the NRO and NGA where he additionally served as the intelligence
agency's liaison to the UAP task force.
Since 2023, the NRO has had a provable program that tracks UAP projects sentient uncovered
in FOIA documents.
Sentient serves as a quote ongoing research and development program and quote that analyzes
satellite data with AI capabilities.
The program was also tasked with analyzing UAP data such as a six May 2021 incident where
a small tic-tac object was detected.
The sentient report states this tic-tac to be similar to other objects observed in redacted
operating areas.
In 2021, the NRO contributed to the ODNI's or Office of the Director of National Intelligence's
report to Congressional Intelligence and Armed Services Committee on Progress made by the
UAP task force.
This discussion of the NRO and UFOs are interesting, seen as they contradict a 2015 statement made
by the NRO which stated that no documentation relating to UFOs and that the topic was quote
outside of the scope of NRO responsibilities.
Furthermore, the NRO has conducted numerous searches in the past and has located no records
end quote.
The NRO has of course additionally been implicated in providing assistance for UFO crash retrieval
operations.
These accusations have been made by Chris Sharp discussed above and witnesses I've covered
on this channel numerous times including Stephen Greer witness AH as well as USAF Master Sergeant
Edgar Fouchet who claimed the NRO alongside the NSA and CIA managed the TR-3B Reverse
Engineer Triangular Alien Reproduction Vehicle.
A fascinating document allegedly released by the NRO surfaced in 1991.
I have covered this document before in relation to Blackjack Control and Blackjack Team, a
possible joint reverse engineering group out of Edwards Air Force Base in the Nevada Test
and Training Range.
This document is again worth our attention because of the countless groups of interest
mentioned throughout.
These include MagiOps, Red Flag MOC, Sea Spray SOG, and AquaTech SOG.
Allegedly Stephen Greer gave this memo to Admiral Thomas Wilson from the Wilson Davis
Notes in a 1997 meeting.
This meeting did occur, this is not disputed, however according to Greer Wilson recognized
at least one of the clandestine groups listed in this memorandum for record from the NRO.
Though the NRO likely works with the CIA, DS&T, and Navy for USO Retrievals they are
not our focus for naval legacy programs.
The NRO was born based on a recommendation to President Eisenhower during a National
Security Council meeting.
The agency was formed to coordinate the Air Forces and CIA's reconnaissance activities.
Lessor known is an additional agency formed to coordinate the CIA's and Navy's reconnaissance
activities, the National Underwater Reconnaissance Office.
This agency NRO is known as the Hidden Younger Brother of the NRO.
Implications about this agency and naval USO retrievals are scant, seen as NRO is a classified
black agency, but we will do everything we can to investigate.
NRO itself has been widely considered to be a special access program.
According to publications made by the Association of Former Intelligence Officers, quote,
Most SAPs involve technology projects.
At the Department of Defense there are relatively few SAPs involving sensitive human intelligence
collection or exploitation methods.
Examples of ongoing non-technology SAPs include interrogation protocols for high-level battlefield
detainees in Afghanistan managed by the Defense Counterintelligence and Human Center of the
DIA.
And every single capability of all special mission units of the Joint Special Operations
Command, one entire government agency, the National Underwater Reconnaissance Office,
is protected by a SAP, end quote.
From this statement we can learn NRO is an extremely rare example of an entire intelligence
agency being protected via a special access program.
But do not be mistaken, NRO is a very real program and we can find snippets of its very
existence here and there including a drastic revelation we will touch on soon.
This includes mention of NRO in a 1975 submission of documents to the Senate Select Committee
on Intelligence.
Included in a long list of National Security Council Intelligence Directives is a National
Security Decision Memorandum 40, which details both NRO and NRO operations.
According to the Historical Dictionary of International Intelligence by Nigel West,
NRO began during the Cold War as a joint Navy CIA group to coordinate and fund special
projects conducted by submarines.
In his book, the U.S. Intelligence Committee, Jeffrey T. Richardson was able to learn even
more about NRO, quote.
In 1969, as a result of an agreement between the CIA and U.S. Navy, an underwater counterpart
to the NRO, the National Underwater Reconnaissance Office, NRO, was established.
With Secretary of the Navy, John Warner, as its first director, the office served as
a means of managing the conduct of submarine intelligence missions and exploitation of their
product.
Those missions involved the recovery of sunken submarines, the Soviet K-129, taping of the
underwater Soviet communication cables, the Ivy Bells, a.k.a. the De Clemson Program,
ocean floor mapping under a program named Desktop, an imagery and sighing collection
from submarines, a program at one time designated the Special Navy Control Program, end quote.
Author Jeffrey T. Richardson was even denied FOIA requests on NRO.
From what we can learn, the agency has deployed several highly specialized ships and submarines
including the USS Parsh, the Hughes-Glomar Explorer, the USS Halibut, the NR-1, and more
recent the USS Jimmy Carter.
Of particular note is the United States' first nuclear-powered submarine launched 1969
the same year as NRO's founding and retired in 2008, the NR-1.
This sub carried out numerous highly classified missions including search, object recovery,
geological survey, oceanographic research and installation and maintenance of underwater
equipment.
One publicly acknowledged NR-1 mission occurred in 1976 with the recovery of an F-14 lost
from an aircraft carrier.
NRO seemingly performed operations to swarm a stranded Soviet submarine in 1981 in Swedish
In response to statements made by former Secretary of Defense Casper Weinberger stating NRO's
submarine operations in Swedish waters were routine defense tests, a senior U.S. official
said quote.
I don't know why Weinberger said what he did.
Covert submarine operations is the most secret thing we have.
The decisions were taken by a subcommittee of DIA and CIA people, most likely the National
Underwater Reconnaissance Office, but I will neither confirm nor deny any operation in
Swedish waters end quote.
An additional high-ranking CIA officer confirmed with the International Peace Research Institute
Oslo that U.S. covert submarine retrieval operations were run in Scandinavian waters
by NRO, whilst directed by Secretary of the Navy John Lehman from 1981 to 1987.
Analyzing the inception of NRO and the retrieval of the K-129 Soviet submarine as detailed
by Jeffrey Richelson, we may gain some keen insights into the organization and their alleged
UFO retrieval missions.
In Blind Man's Bluff, the untold story of American submarine espionage, NRO was established
under CIA Director Richard Helms to address the sinking of the Soviet submarine K-129
outside of Hawaii in 1968.
Though the office was intended to act between the CIA's Directorate of Science and Technology
and Office of Naval Intelligence, quote, from the day NRO was formed, the CIA took charge,
end quote.
NRO has seemingly seen a tug of war of control through the CIA and Navy, but by 1972 the Navy
regained some control of NRO, seeing Secretary of the Navy John Warner serve as its director.
However, through NRO, the Navy and CIA DS&T's usage of the GLOMAR Explorer may be worth
analyzing more.
To address K-129, the CIA built the ship the GLOMAR Explorer mentioned above, which launched
in 1972 to recover the sub under Project Jennifer, a.k.a. Project Azorian.
Astoundingly, the ship carried a modern-day price tag of $1.68 billion.
I would like to thank medium author Underscored for this great piece titled General Motors,
GLOMAR Explorer, Lockheed Martin, and UAP Connections.
His article will be in the video description.
The piece explores the GLOMAR Explorer being involved in hidden programs beyond the scope
of K-129 Soviet submarine recovery in 1974, and was additionally used for nearly two decades
by Lockheed Martin.
Since the ship was a NRO creation, we can reasonably assume these clandestine operations
and Lockheed Martin's usage were conducted under NRO.
The article discussed how in 1978 Ocean Minerals Company, whose prime contractor was Lockheed
Missiles and Space Company now Lockheed Martin, leased the GLOMAR Explorer for quote-unquote
deep sea mining operation.
The question must be asked, did Lockheed, NRO, and the GLOMAR additionally partake in
these undersea UFO retrievals?
After all, later in this project, we will address a scintillating 1970s UFO crash retrieval
case in which the GLOMAR Explorer allegedly retrieved a downed non-human craft.
We will also discuss an incredible 1991 USO recovery in this project, in touch on how
I believe NRO provided transportation and logistics assets to the Navy's Project Sand
Dollar.
The clandestine highly compartmentalized project that was tasked to retrieve military-sensitive
hardware and other items with national security importance from the seafloor of the continental
shelf in deepest marine environments.
Sand Dollar seemingly gained actionable leverage when in 1964 a chief scientist of the Special
Project's Office of the US Navy, Dr. John Pena Craven, launched the Deep Submergence
Systems Project which saw the Navy drastically improve deep sea engineering and exploitation
capabilities, but much more on this later.
The most astonishing discussion of NRO actually comes from a man mentioned dozens of times
on this channel who self-admittedly served as its director.
Thank you.
I became the director of Naval Intelligence, 13 September 1974, brand new flag selectee
that year.
I also had a second hat, and they still don't want me to talk about it even now, of director
of the National Underwater Reconnaissance Office.
See, I think you have it classified.
It's the organization that procured all of the sensitive reconnaissance systems to collect
intelligence under the surface of the oceans.
Bobby Ray Inman allows us an extremely rare opportunity to understand naval UFO slash
USO legacy programs as well as the likely involvement of NRO.
Inman served as a highly decorated four-star admiral in the US Navy from 1951 to 1982,
while also serving as the NSA and CIA director and director of SAIC and Wackenhut.
Of course, if you are unfamiliar with these two companies, SAIC is a premier contractor
I have discussed and will discuss later in this video as being heavily involved with
UFO legacy programs.
SAIC was likely the contractor described by former US Army Green Beret Randy Anderson
as running the Off-World Technologies Division below the Naval Surface Warfare Center crane.
Wackenhut was a contracted security company I have covered before that has often times
been implicated as providing industrial security forces who have guarded UFO-related SAP locations.
And of course, Inman's dual roles within US intelligence and the Navy also suits an
organization like NRO perfectly.
Anyways, Inman states in the above clip he took a hold of the highly secretive NRO in
1974.
Inman had only spoken publicly about NRO once before in an October 2021 interview with
David Zerler, the director of the Caltech Heritage Project.
At this time, Inman served on Caltech's Board of Trustees to which he had been appointed
in 1989 on the behalf of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, NASA, and Congress.
While discussing JPL's future as a productive national asset working alongside NASA, Inman
was reminded of his Navy and NSA days during his tenure in the National Underwater Reconnaissance
Program.
According to Inman, NRO served as a black program due to its constant need to pursue
evolving, cutting-edge technological capabilities to outsmart adversaries.
Later on in the interview, Inman touched on his role as director of Naval Intelligence
and director of NRO whose very existence was still classified.
In Inman's own words, he was harassed for even mentioning the office, quote,
In recent years when I talked about it, I got a pretty hot letter telling me I was not
permitted to talk in detail since they were all still classified, end quote.
According to Inman, NRO was in essence a black program that, quote,
Acquired the technology for undersea reconnaissance, ranging from conducting imagery of the ocean
floors looking for anything which might be desirable from an intelligence point of view.
Before my time, it had been engaged in the efforts to pick up a submarine off the ocean
floor with the Glomar Explorer.
By the time I took over, it was primarily designed to track the hardware to be used
in modern collection activities.
The actual missions were conducted by the services, by the U.S. Navy, by the submarine
force, by the National Security Agency.
I had already been exposed to the Glomar Explorer program when I was in Hawaii as the
Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence, end quote.
So from Inman, the U.S. Intelligence Committee in Blind Man's Bluff, we can learn the director
of NRO dealt with technology acquisition and was also a high-ranking naval official ranging
from Secretary of the Navy to Director of Naval Intelligence.
You'll recall how Inman states he was exposed to NRO's Glomar Explorer in Hawaii.
In 1974, the K-129 Soviet wreckage was picked up 1,560 miles northwest of Hawaii, however.
Once again, later in this project, I will bring up an alleged UFO recovery in 1973, conducted
by the Glomar in Hawaii.
Could Inman possibly have been involved in this retrieval in an official capacity?
But why exactly are these words from Admiral and former NRO director Bobby Ray Inman so
important?
I have spoken on this topic quite a few times, but as this directly involves U.S. Navy UFO
legacy programs, let's dive back in.
In 2022, on the Project Unity show, Inman claimed he had found quote-unquote plausible explanations
for all UAP sightings.
In my years' active service, I became intrigued by the whole issue of UFOs, and as I dug
into it, I found there were plausible explanations for virtually everything that we had observed.
Still recently, with the openness of Admiral Timothy Gallaudet, naval officials quite often
denied the existence of UFOs.
This dates all the way back to 1951, where the Office of Naval Research physicist, Ernor
Liddell, stated in a public magazine article that all UAP reports were mirages or balloons.
He stated trained observers were being fooled.
These 2022 statements by Inman contradict much of this man's storied history.
I started out extremely skeptical about this whole thing, I thought this was just rubbish
from the tabloids, but I was surprised to find thousands of U.S. government documents
from intelligence agencies that tended to indicate that there was a little bit more
to this than met the eye, so I went to seek guidance from the various highest levels of
the United States intelligence community, and I was quite alarmed at what I was able
to learn.
Now, we are, in this report that we're now going to show, we're going to hear a conversation
featuring you.
Tell me the context of that conversation.
Well, I had contacted Admiral Bobby Ray Inman, who was the head of the National Security
Agency in the United States, Deputy Director at CIA, Director of Naval Intelligence, and
a variety of intelligence posts, a technologist, and clearly someone that if this was really
accurate, that there really were UFOs and non-human intelligence around, this is a man
who had to know.
So I was able to contact him, thanks to a contact through Admiral Lord Hill Norton here
in the U.K., and this conversation, he alarmingly not only indicated that these issues were covered
under national secrecy laws, but that the United States government did in fact have
possession of the hardware associated with this.
In other words, this was an actual physical phenomenon.
A craft.
A spaceship.
Several of them, and they were in operational condition, which I assume suggested that they
had been in contact, that they had been given these craft for some reason or another, because
they certainly weren't crashed vehicles.
In a 1989 telephone call, Admiral Bobby Ray Inman would tell NASA mission specialist
Bob Eschler, Deputy Director of the CIA, DSNT, Everett Heineman, would be the best person
to ask if recovered vehicles would be available for technological research outside of military
circles.
To quote Inman in this call, quote, the deputy director for science and technology at CIA
is named Everett Heineman.
He is in fact getting ready to retire in the very near future.
That may make him somewhat more willing to have dialogues than he otherwise would have
had.
When I knew him in that period seven to ten years ago, he was a person of very substantial
integrity and just good common sense.
So as a place to start, he would clearly be high on the list, end quote.
And we actually have recorded snippets of this phone call between Eschler and Inman.
Do you anticipate that any of the recovered vehicles would never become available for
technological research outside of the military circles?
Ten years ago, the answer would have been, whether it's time it evolved, they're beginning
to become more open on it, there's a possibility.
Eschler would go on to receive this call from Admiral Inman.
Mr. Eschler, this is Tom King, an Admiral Inman's office, yet you would be breaching
confidence and or violation of the secret three laws and discussing his involvement
in any matter.
Interesting how Inman, a former neuro director, would refer Eschler to a CIA DS&T director
for recovered anomalous vehicles.
CIA DS&T was, of course, one half of the founding agencies behind neuro.
To note, while Heineman served as CIA DS&T deputy director from 1979 to 1982, he would
go on to direct program B in the National Reconnaissance Program from 1982 to 1989.
Possibly, this is where a neuro director and NRO program director first encountered
UFO legacy programs together.
Heineman and Eschler arranged to meet at the CIA's headquarters in Langley, Virginia,
10 August, 1989.
In this meeting, Heineman would deny any knowledge of UFO or UFO legacy programs, however, in
2022, Twitter user RGH underscore UFOs would contact Heineman regarding comments made by
Inman that Heineman was knowledgeable on U.S. UFO programs.
In this instance, Heineman did not deny, but instead said, quote, I am a long way and quite
a few years from working in the area you are researching, end quote.
Heineman would offer to answer any questions relating to UFOs, but never responded to RGH,
and as of this time, I have additionally attempted to contact Heineman to no response.
RGH's inquiries into UFO programs revolved around Heineman's time in the NRO's program
B. As we just mentioned above, program B served as the CIA's initiative to build and operate
satellites for sigint purposes.
Heineman was the first chief of the facility for the ground element of the program in Pine
Gap, Australia.
It is fascinating to think Heineman could have been working on UFO legacy programs in
the 1980s out of the illustrious and infamous Pine Gap for a joint CIA and NRO program.
More pertinent to our investigation today, Inman would additionally connect Echler with
another former director of Naval Intelligence, Sumner Shapiro.
It is unknown if like Inman, Shapiro served on the NRO.
In 1989, Echler met Shapiro under the pretense he was interested in working with the group
that managed UFO information, and at this time Shapiro was retired as director of Naval
Intelligence and served as an executive with BDM International.
BDM is of course a former defense contractor purchased by Northrop Grumman, I directly
accused of being involved with UFO legacy programs.
Shapiro told Echler factions within the U.S. possess extra-terrestrial vehicles that he,
Shapiro, had even studied at close quarters.
According to the former DNI, teams would take the craft apart, pack them up and ship them
around the country to different laboratories.
This craft featured unique interlocking components that had to be disassembled in an exact sequence
to be put back together.
However, Shapiro was incredibly careful with what information he divulged to Echler, never
specifying where vehicles and technology were taken to protect classified information.
Echler would meet Shapiro for a second time in the Admiral's Virginia home in 1990.
This visit was far less actionable and concluded abruptly.
According to Bob Echler, as relayed by author Timothy Good, quote,
But before we move on from discussing Echler and insights he gained from senior naval officials,
Echler would also claim Navy EMP experiments were utilized out of Pensacola Naval Air Station
to down UFOs for retrievals.
These involved Empress and Empress II onboard EMP generators.
Inman and Shapiro are not the only naval officials who have spoken on UFO legacy programs.
In 2021, now deceased former Navy Director of Science and Technology Development, Nats
Kobitz told Ross Colthart he was, during his service, read into a Navy UFO crash retrieval
and reverse engineering program.
Although Kobitz didn't actively engage with TUO or technologies of unknown origin, he
was read into an active program that had retrieved multiple UAP.
He called me on an open line out of the blue and I could barely believe who he was.
His name was Nats Kobitz.
He was the US Navy's former long-time director of science and technology development, their
chief R&D scientist, their chief geek for many years, for over 30 years.
And sadly, when I caught up with him, he was dying from cancer and faked dictated that
I caught him at the perfect time.
And over several months, he finally opened up to me about what he was on his own admission
read into.
He was briefed on the program and he told me that he had been read into a classified
program involving retrieved non-human technology, recovered alien spacecraft.
He eventually admitted that he was officially briefed that America had retrieved multiple
non-human craft and that he was aware there was a secret operation underway for decades
in his words to undertake to reverse engineer them.
He admitted that most of what he knew was effectively hearsay, although from some excellent
official sources.
This is something he'd been briefed into in his official capacity.
He did admit that on one occasion he was flown to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, literally
taken deep underground, taken to a secure room and shown what looked like some kind
of bulkhead from a craft which he believed was constructed in a way that defied conventional
explanation.
The craft's skin and inner bulkhead were composites bonded at an atomic level.
He suspected it was non-human intelligence technology.
But being the scientist he was infuriatingly, he wouldn't say to me it was alien tech.
He would just say it was something he had never seen that any human could make.
That was a patriot.
He was a decent, honorable public servant.
He respected the fact that this program was being kept secret for a reason.
But as a scientist, he also recognized that the American public and especially Congress
had the right to know what was being done with taxpayer dollars.
And he frankly told me that as far as he knew, there was no good justification for keeping
it secret.
Remember all the way back to Chris Sharpe's mysterious reporting on USO Legacy programs
involving the CIA, DSNT, Navy, Neuro, SOCOM and others.
To quote Chris in the third iteration of the article, quote, it is further understood that
the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution has provided deep-submergence vehicles to support
these retrieval efforts, end quote.
Woods Hole, or WHOI as I will call them here, is quote, dedicated to advancing knowledge
of the ocean and its connection with the earth systems through a sustained commitment to
excellence in science, engineering and education, and to the application of this knowledge to
problems facing society, end quote.
The non-profit research and higher education facility is dedicated to the study of marine
science and engineering.
During the Cold War, 1985 to be exact, the US Navy deployed a classified mission to investigate
the wreckage of the USS Thresher and USS Scorpion, which had sunk in the North Atlantic Ocean
at depths of between 10,000 and 15,000 feet.
Sounds like a neuro-investigation, no?
While this mission led to the discovery of the wreck of the Titanic, the operational
team and vessel that discovered the RMS Titanic was from Woods Hole.
WHOI employs a host of highly advanced underwater vehicles that include human-occupied submersibles,
remote-controlled vehicles, autonomous and towed robots.
These include the AUV Sentry Autonomous Exploration Vehicle capable of exploring depths of nearly
20,000 feet or 6,000 meters, the HOV Alvin, a three-person research submersible, and the
HOV Deepsea Challenger used by filmmaker James Cameron.
WHOI works closely with US military, specifically the Navy, where it develops technology including
ocean battle space sensors, unmanned undersea vehicles, and acoustic navigation and comm systems.
As a matter of fact, going back decades Woods Hole was involved with the Atomic Energy Commission,
the precursor to the Department of Energy that highly likely housed UFO legacy programs while
also serving as the gatekeepers for UFO data and materials, misclassifying such as trans-classified
foreign nuclear material.
From 1948 to 1949, a gentleman named William Webster served on the Military Liaison Committee
for the Atomic Energy Commission.
Webster was not only a member of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Corporation, but was
also a trustee of the Rand Corporation and Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute.
WHOI even manages the Navy Oceanographic Research Laboratory for the Department of the Navy.
This WHOI lab is now part of the Naval Research Laboratory NRL, however, the National Oceanographic
Research Laboratory was formed by a Federal Contract Research Center, or FCRC, the precursor
to FFRDC, which I talk about quite often.
Present day, Woods Hole also manages projects for the Office of Naval Research, such as Project
Sundance.
In fact, since 2002, Woods Hole has been awarded over $3.4 billion in federal awards
in the form of contracts, subcontracts, and grants.
Analyzing such contracts, we can find some data of extreme interest, such as National
Defense R&D Services with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, whose crane division I have
directly accused runs an underground installation with Science Applications International Corporation,
housing the Off-World Technologies Division.
Historically, WHOI has been awarded these contracts by NSWC via sole-source contracts, a contract
method Dr. Eric Davis has spoken of, that are used in UFO legacy programs to maintain
compartmentalization and secrecy.
Woods Hole is given such sole-source, indefinite delivery contracts because, quote, the government
believes that the supplier has unique capabilities that cannot be otherwise obtained, end quote.
And speaking of SAIC, Woods Hole has also been granted R&D contracts with SAIC and NSWC
Crane Weapon Systems Division, JXN.
But it doesn't stop there, Woods Hole has been given numerous indefinite delivery and
definite quantity NSWC contracts to build, fabricate, integrate, evaluate, and support
unmanned undersea vehicles specifically for the Naval Undersea Warfare Center installations.
Now we finally get to the most interesting part of this video, a deep sea USO recovery
experience that ties together much of what we have discussed on today's episode.
This story first appeared on Art Bell's Coast to Coast call-in episode on 19 April 2002,
and I plan on using clips of the audio here, however, if people would be interested in
fully released audio where I work with a 3D artist to recreate the encounter, please let
me know.
In this live radio call-in show, Art Bell was contacted by a retired Marine Corps Lieutenant
Colonel.
The caller, first name Mark, had been assigned to 22 area camp Pendleton to work with the
first air delivery unit before being stationed at Okinawa, Japan at the Fatima USMC Air
Station.
It was here he began doing rescue diving work on weekends alongside a Navy crew.
Mark would form a friendship with the Lieutenant and the Navy who would go on to become a commander
of a DSRV or Deep Submergence Rescue Vehicle unit.
The friendship I made later came back that I was assigned or requested to join this DSRV
unit and did and was reassigned to Virginia.
And basically what we did was a deep sea rescue and recovery.
If we had a downed aircraft, we would go and try to rig the craft to get it back.
Anything, any anomaly that we wanted to look at, basically we were sent, there were several
teams that did the same thing we did.
How deep did you go?
We could go two miles, excess miles, you're pretty much pushing it.
This particular incident I wanted to tell you about was out of my mind.
You're saying you could go over 10,000 feet?
Yes.
Wow.
All right, anyway, go ahead.
Well, I'll say the particular incident we were involved in, we were just under a mile
and a half of water north Atlantic.
The specific mention of DSRV is critical to this entire investigation.
The United States created two Deep Submergence Rescue Vehicles that operated within the U.S.
Navy from 1970 to 2008.
Mystic, DSRV-1 and Avalon, DSRV-2 were products of the Lockheed Missile and Space Company
in Sunnyvale, California.
DSRVs are to this day some of the most technologically advanced submersibles in the entire world.
These two vehicles were capable of deploying anywhere in the world transported within a
truck, C-5 Galaxy, or naval vessel to piggyback efficient routes to rescue crews of stranded
submarines within 72 hours.
These highly advanced submersibles employed a guidance system more complex than Apollo
11's, allowing the DSRVs to hover in place in strong ocean currents to mate with disabled
submarines.
The Navy conducted numerous exercises with DSRVs-1 and 2, but no official rescues were
ever conducted.
And this is due to no American subs sinking since 1971, and 1972 saw the introduction
of DSRVs-1 and 2.
It is interesting to note, DSRV was born from 1964's Deep Submergence Systems Project,
DSSP, to increase and develop the Navy's deep ocean engineering capabilities.
The project was initially founded out of the Navy's special program Office, and DSRV's
launch date of 70-71 dovetails closely with the beginning of Neuro in 1969.
Interesting how the DSSP was also founded partly out of the loss of the USS Thresher,
the same sub Woods Hole was attempting to find when it discovered the Titanic.
If this story is true, this means DSRV, Mystic, and Avalon's practice missions were really
to retrieve underwater aircraft and vehicles.
And this is most likely fact, as Dr. John Pena Craven, chief scientist of the special
program's Office of the Navy and first head of the DSSP, wrote regarding DSRV and classified
operations quote,
There were many highly classified missions associated with national security that cannot
be accomplished without a DSRV system.
The specific operational needs of these missions could not be anticipated, but they were certain
to occur.
Thus, a DSRV designed, constructed, and deployed for every conceivable rescue mission would
also be available for the intelligence quote, unquote, mission impossible that were sure
to occur, end quote.
Craven's words here are particularly interesting.
In 1964, Craven was tasked with spearheading the Deep Submergence Systems project, which
led to the creation of the DSRV and other deep clandestine subs like the NR-1 to respond
to unprecedented events at dramatically extended operational depths.
In 1965, Craven was given a high-level intelligence briefing by a Naval intelligence officer
and was informed on the existence of an extremely sensitive program named SandDollar.
From Craven's book, The Silent War, the Cold War Battle Beneath the Sea, we get a
rare chance to learn more about this program.
SandDollar was tasked to retrieve militarily sensitive hardware and other items with national
security importance from the sea floor of the continental shelf in deep marine environment.
According to the Silent War, SandDollar was buried within the structure of yet another
secret program, itself hidden within the Polaris sub-program.
This hierarchy and compartmentalization of programs is something we have observed extensively
in the Wilson Davis notes and throughout our investigation today.
Craven even wrote the program is still classified to this day, that being 2002, quote, I was
shown an inventory itemizing the items to be known on the seabed and a map of their
distribution throughout the world, end quote.
To expand on this statement, quote, the salvageable items of interest were spread around the globe.
There were plenty of interesting objects on ocean floors worldwide, not just in the Bermuda
Triangle, and there was an equal distribution of these objects between those that were lying
on the continental shelf and those in deep oceans.
There was a skew in favor of the continental shelf because of the shallow water, rocks,
and shoals, but much of that hardware had either been salvaged or scattered by storms,
Craven would even discuss two vessels previously mentioned to have been used in operational
capacity by the Nuro, the Halibut and Seawolf.
Craven claimed there was no need for maximum security for these submarines because they
themselves, quote, they only transported top secret equipment and teams of industry
specialists who would carry out unknown missions in unknown parts of the sea.
The performers and the performances were invisible, end quote.
As we explore this undersea recovery with DSRV units, we can now study the case with a strong
thesis in mind. Chief scientist John Craven was tasked by the US Navy to drastically increase
naval deep sea diving and engineering capabilities to retrieve undersea objects discovered by an
astoundingly compartmented program called Sand Dollar.
Craven's 1964 Deep Submergence Systems project would lead to the creation of clandestine
submersibles that were capable of retrieving, quote, unquote, items of interest from the sea floor.
Some of these submersibles, such as the DSRV units, would be shuttled via mother ships,
including Nuro's Halibut and Seawolf.
So now the question must be asked, was Sand Dollar the Navy's first UFO legacy program
designated with the discovery, monitoring, and retrieval of UFOs?
After all, Craven would state, quote, could I organize and manage a program to carry out
this mission using the assets of the DSSP? Furthermore, could I carry it out in such
a manner that my family and friends and closest professional colleagues would have no idea
that I was involved in such a project? End quote.
From the DSSP, the Navy planned to build six DSRV units and additional DSRVs known as Deep
Submergence Search Vehicles, DSSVs, that were never officially built outside of Mystic and Avalon.
These DSSV-DSRVs were intended for sea floor exploration and recovery,
and to be capable of clandestine operations with an operational depth of 20,000 feet.
So while we dive into Mark's story, I do think it is possible he and his Navy unit were assigned
to a DSSV, not the two acknowledged Mystic and Avalon DSRVs. If this is the case, no such vessel
in which Mark was operating was ever publicly acknowledged to have been built.
But back to the story. Our story takes place in the early summer of 1991 at a depth of roughly
1.5 miles in the North Atlantic 250 nautical miles or roughly 288 standard miles outside of
Aberdeen, Scotland. Looking at 250 nautical mile radius outside of Aberdeen compared with the
Atlantic Ocean depths, we can draw a reasonable estimate of where this retrieval incident would
have taken place. Let us also account for some error in Mark's estimate and give a generous
plus or minus 20% room for error in radius here. Therefore, our radius could be up to
50 nautical miles larger, so we have a standard radius of 345 standard miles.
And folks using the superior metric system here, I am sorry guys.
Waters in the Atlantic near the UK are actually quite shallow, however. 345 miles almost due west
of Aberdeen sees depths reaching over 8,000 feet, which is over our mile and a half claim.
This area of ocean is known as the Rockall Trough, east of the Rockall Plateau. Hopefully further
data can come from this very specific location at which this retrieval is alleged to have occurred.
Mark's DSRV crew had been sent from Virginia, and as we know from a 2011 Nuclear Regulatory
Commission emails detailing the tsunamis in Japan, both the east and west coast of the
United States had employed a quote, very operational, ready deep-submergence rescue vehicle, end quote.
On the DSRV, Mark served to operate computer equipment on the optical and electronic recognition
side and also worked on mechanical aspects of the vessel with mechanical arms and rigging for
object retrieval. Mark's team was dispatched after a survey vessel in the North Atlantic had
picked up a radioactive signature on the seafloor. A second vessel equipped with a side scan determined
a vessel to be resting on the seafloor. Naval authorities thought this to be a crashed foreign
nuclear submarine. However, the radar signature had shown the object to be smaller than any known
nuclear sub. Upon diving, Mark's DSRV attempted to contact the vessel and immediately realized
this was not a sub, but shaped more like an aircraft. And what they did was send a vessel around
with a side scan, picked up that there was a vessel on the bottom. They thought first possibly a
submarine that had some kind of problem there, not ours obviously. Yes sir. We would have been in
communication. The vessel came back, it was much too small, any sub that they were familiar with.
And at that time we came on site. But you were getting some kind of nuclear signature from it?
Right, there was a radiation from it. And the concern was, was it a weapon, some type of
concealed weapon source or was it actually a power source? Right. And we were brought out
from Virginia, steamed out. And not to give you specific minutes, seconds location, just
approximately 250 miles out of Aberdeen, Scotland is where we were. You can draw a circle and
narrate down pretty quick at that depth. You can limit the waters. Yes sir. But upon diving,
we went down, like I said, just under a mile and a half. And we contacted the vessel,
which we immediately recognized not as a submarine, but more of an aircraft.
Communications back to the top, we were told to go observe, photograph, determine what we had. We
thought at that point we had possibly a Russian or Korean aircraft with some type of contained
weapon source. So as we went in. Yeah, that would be logical. We went in and this particular
vessel was partially in the mud, submerged or buried under some mud, had been there for some
period of time. And how much were you, what were you seeing of it? What shape? What we saw was the,
I would say the rear two thirds. It was a triangular shape. It was waged more. Triangular.
Triangular shape. And best likely to describe it, it would be nosed in with about two thirds
exposed to the back. Yes sir. And as you come out the triangular shape at the back, it was rounded
as it came to the corner. What would be the corner of the triangle? They were rounded on both sides.
Oh my. Oh really? And this obviously not a conventional aircraft. Well one,
one comment was made in the SRV. The little lieutenant commander is also a good friend was,
my comment was, I don't believe it's Russian. And his comment was, if it is, it's not Russia
right now, you know, joking. And what, you know, the best way I can describe it, it was a charcoal
gray in color. It had some markings on the side. Sir, sir, listen, I'm coming to a break at the top
of the hour. Can you manage to hold on? I can if you'd like, yes. I would like, yes. Stay right
there, all right? You located this craft, which was a triangular in shape, and you were seeing the
back portion of it. Right. At this point, we, we'd come over almost what you, I would best describe
as broadside to, to the, the craft, the nose, what I would determine as the nose in was submerged in mud.
Mark and his crew had no matching craft or pattern to cross reference this craft. The 60 to 70 foot
charcoal gray triangle with smooth edges, no windows, rivets, seams, or bolts, a rounded rear,
and hieroglyphic writing along the side did not lead the crew to suspect terrestrial origins.
Mark and his Lieutenant Colonel friend both thought the craft to be extraterrestrial,
but did not relay this to the surface out of fear of psych evaluations and to not risk communication
interception. The surface LPH vessel ordered the DSRV unit to return with still photography
and video of the craft. We do need to quickly address the markings on the side of the craft
that Mark relayed. And there were markings on the side of it, which were in the, in the skin itself.
And how would you describe those markings? You don't know, I've heard this before, people
try to say hieroglyphics and all of this. It was not a, it was not any, any language or marking
which we would typically see, Russian Arabic, nothing we were trained or had seen previously.
But hieroglyphic light. Well, I'll say hieroglyphic light, but more geometric patterns. There weren't
large walking individuals with bird heads and, and you know, when I think of hieroglyphics,
I think of individuals with a head, like a bird or wolf and then human body just didn't have,
have those type of patterns. It was more geometric shapes, but, but you could tell some of the
actual characters repeated quite a bit of it was in mud. And then there'd be gaps
throughout a mud that you could see some repeating of the character. I have covered in great detail
the high confidence 1965 Kexpert, Pennsylvania, crashed retrieval in which numerous town residents
observed US military forces retrieve and transport a 12 foot acorn like bronze craft. Many such
witnesses described hieroglyphic style writing around the circumference of the lower lip of the
craft. And additionally, Danny Sheehan has stated in the classified project Blue Book Files,
he has seen images of a crashed UFO saucer that display geometric hieroglyphic style characters
along its circumference. This is a fascinating detail and connection to these other cases.
After 12 hours of waiting after returning to the surface, the DSRV crew was ordered to dive again,
this time taking a marine archaeologist. The archaeologist made sketches of the craft and
even traveled down with his own personal computer. Where did this go from there? I mean, now you've
got this thing ID. Would you suddenly out of the picture or? Well, we're in the picture up,
up to the point where we're rigging and recovering. As I said, we took down a marine archaeologist.
And one thing that was very interesting that this individual, we actually monitored currents,
did some things, temperatures and such at the site. He was making quite a bit of notes and,
you know, really not, not making a lot of comment, but he did make the comment when we asked,
you know, is this recent? Because there was no disturbed area around it, best way to describe it.
It looked like it had been in place. And he said that it wasn't any more recent than at least 30 to
40 years, which really threw us back because this thing looked like something beyond, you know,
where we're at development-wise aircraft. And I still had to rule out that it was not
experimental aircraft at this point, someone's. But the point that he made that the buildup of
the silt mud in the front end would appear that this has fallen in place for a period of 30 years
or somewhere in the range 30 to 40 years. And you have, was there an attempt made at recovery?
There was a recovery made, not an attempt made, there was a recovery made of the craft.
What do you know about that? On the third day of the operation, the DSRV crew dove for a fourth
time, this time to retrieve the craft. The team first used thrusters to remove silt and mud from
the craft's midsection. So Mark and others could attach equipment to try and lift the vehicle.
Immediate problems arose as this crashed USO did not fall under the same procedures and
weight estimations used for conventional aircraft. Due to this, the DSRV crew had to make size and
base weight estimations. The craft's weight estimations was based on the closest size conventional
aircraft, the F-14. We had thrusted away a lot of the silt mud from the from the vehicle. Still had
a section, probably about the eight foot that was trapped or under depth, it was more of an angle to
it. So when we rigged it to bring it up rear first, use the best language I can, we were going to
try to lift the rear end up and bring this thing up on an angle and try to keep everything intact
and go. Yes sir. We're rigging that with our calculation for the rigging, the weight, brought
it up and it went probably about two and a half to three times the ascent as what we anticipated,
which immediately gave us the feel that we're dealing with something extremely light.
Trailing the craft as it ascended, the DSRV crew noticed the underside of the craft was
completely smooth. No piping, exhaust or mechanical features existed on the underbelly of the triangle.
When the vehicle was recovered, Mark got a clear look at the craft. It proved to be six to eight
feet longer than an F-14 at 62 feet, meaning this craft was 68 to 70 feet long. Mark stated
nothing like that existed in 1991 and as of the show in 2002, still nothing like that existed.
The craft was a solid metal form with no cockpit and no windows.
Right, it was a little bit, actually a little bit longer than the aircraft would be, probably
six to eight feet, I would say, in excess of what you would anticipate for F-14.
Colonel straight out question is, do you believe that you recovered an alien craft?
I've never, you know, I've had conversations with the individual, my friend that actually was
there, we're still in contact quite often. I can't definitively say that it was. I can only say that
it was an object that didn't belong there and certainly would not have belonged there 30 or 40
years prior to when we were on site and no visible means of, you know, if you anticipated it was an
aircraft and I saw a cockpit, I would say it was definitely somebody's here that was in development
but the technology would not allow you to fly to craft 30, 40 years ago.
Within four hours, Mark and his entire crew were steamed off-site. Mark received no feedback or
debriefing on what the vehicle was, nor did he and his crew receive any threats or warnings,
not to speak about the incident. However, Mark did state when he joined the DSRV team,
he was ordered to sign some pretty lengthy NDAs. As we know from Dr. Craven and DSRV for clandestine
usage, this does not come as a shock. Mark would be subject to such intense secrecy regarding his
work on the DSRV. Mark stated, even if the DSRV retrieved a US vehicle, they were not allowed to
Art Bell got the original sketches of the retrieval by the naval lieutenant colonel
and Mark told Bell he would connect him with the naval officer. I am still trying to chase
down this case with the help of some high-profile naval officials. More investigation does need
to be done on this case since officially DSRV's mystic and Avalon had an operational depth of
just over one mile and it would be unusual to employ USMC divers for the time. For this reason,
I do think back to the 1964 proposal of six DSRV and DSSV under the Deep Submergence Systems
Project where only DSRVs one and two were built. Remember back to the words of Dr. John P. Craven,
chief scientist of the Navy Special Projects Office who discussed many classified operations
were performed by DSRV teams. I do think it possible DSRV units outside of Mystic and Avalon
were built with capabilities akin to the DSSV units. 20,000 foot operational depth capacity
with a greater capability for seafloor navigation and object retrieval. And it is interesting of
course to point out the 1964 Deep Submergence Systems Project DSSP which aimed to increase and
develop the Navy's deep ocean engineering capabilities for Project Sand Dollar which
resulted in the creation of DSRV, occurred just two years after the October 1962 Blue
Guild Triple Prime US Navy UFO recovery. Additionally, this case piqued my interest due
to the presence of a crash triangle. So often in my videos I discuss many triangular sightings
being alien reproduction vehicles. Whether this be the TR3B XF131 Supercentinal or a long list
of prototypes I have wagered to be built in the late 70s into the early 2000s, I believe the US
saw heavy clandestine experimentation within USAPs to build triangular shaped alien reproduction
vehicles. But this triangular case harkens my attention back to the alleged Special Operations
1 Majestic 12 Manual. In this piece the SOM101 allegedly written in 1952 details are given to
extraterrestrial craft types including triangles which according to the document were very new
and very rare at the time. The DSRV retrieved the triangle allegedly in 1991. The marine
archaeologists claim the triangle had been buried for 30 to 40 years meaning the crash likely occurred
between 1951 and 1961. Interesting how this date range coincides with the Majestic 12 Special
Operations Manual claiming new triangular extraterrestrial vehicles were being spotted at the
time of the 1954 Manual. If these retrieval events are true and the inside sources of
Chris Sharp are correct, water-based USO and UFO recoveries are stationed at naval installations
and locations of the Office of Naval Research where they are then utilized in material exploitation
programs. Let us review some cases and testimony throughout history of downed craft stored at
naval installations. We will reference numerous sources here including the legendary Leonard
Stringfield whose work I referenced often in my dumb video. Stringfield's crash retrieval status
reports 1 through 7 are in my opinion the best crash retrieval work done by any investigator.
I will also omit stories of China Lake and the testimony of Randy Anderson and the Off-World
Technologies Division as I have covered these stories and installations and experiences in
depth in the past. Leonard Stringfield was once contacted by letter in 1978 tipping him off to
Derward Buddy Hack, a CPO radar observer who in 1952 while stationed at the Naval Air Station
Sunnyville, California disappeared out of sight. While serving at the Naval Installation Hack,
according to his family, accidentally entered a large door of a hangar that was temporarily
unguarded. There he encountered a massive saucer-shaped craft with rows of windows and when
the guards returned they forced Hack out and threatened him. Stringfield contacted multiple
members of Hack's family who confirmed hearing the story including his mother who not only confirmed
Hack's disappearance but also the saucer story. Hack's mother would hear him say quote,
it was certainly no aircraft of ours, end quote. In 1979, 6 February 1979 to be exact,
Stringfield received a letter from one Joan Jeffers. Jeffers stated she knew a retired
Ustaff Colonel who enlisted in the 40s and retired in the 70s. While stationed at an
Air Force radar facility, the Colonel would attend weekly commander's calls at the Naval
Air Station in New Brunswick, Maine. At one such meeting in 1956, the Colonel was shown a film by
Major Lester Goldberg that was apparently shot by the Ustaff. Interesting side note here, one
Major Lester Goldberg did in fact serve at the Brunswick Naval Air Station at this time and was
the commanding officer of the 654 aircraft control and warning squadron. The film showed a circular
metal silver colored disc on the ground. The interior of the craft was well lit and featured
smooth walls. The film also showed at least three bodies lying on tables. The beans were short and
they all looked similar in appearance featuring a sheen or gray color. None of the beans had any
external ears or hair, all appeared to be dead. Further sources of Stringfield, like the anonymous
Lieutenant Colonel X, would even state the Navy housed biologics. Such as in 1975, when Lieutenant
Colonel X claimed quote, bodies are now being flown outside of the US to a secret naval installation
on an island in the Pacific Ocean. End quote. Now the US Navy does employ multiple DOD laboratories
and MRTFBs or major range and test facility bases in the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. These include
the Atlantic Undersea Test and Evaluation Center on the Andros Island Bahamas and Pacific Missile
Range Facility in Hawaii. There is also incredible research I plan to explore in the future conducted
by Dr. Richard Sotter that similar to deep underground military bases, the US Navy employs
deep underwater military bases. And those familiar with my discussion of MRTFB will recall such
installations as Dugway Proving Ground, Edwards 412 Test Wing, NAWC China Lake, Fort Hachuka,
the Nevada Test and Training Range, and more. Lieutenant Colonel X also brought forward
an interesting connection to the Majestic 12 Special Operations Manual which claims deceased
biologics were taken to the Wright Patterson Blue Room while living entities were taken to the
OpNAC BBS 01. Some have guessed OpNAC is similar to OPNAV which is the Office of the Chief of Naval
Operations while BBS is the Bermuda Biological Station, an Atlantic based installation now
called BIOS. In Crash Retrieval Status Reports 3, Case 15b, Stringfield relayed a cat and mouse
game with witness AF and his brother Pete. This story took place at the Naval Air Base Yuma,
Arizona, now called the Marine Corps Air Station Yuma, which is directly near Yuma Proving Ground.
If you remember back to my video on Dumbs, the US Army Corps of Engineers took a tremendous
interest in building underground installations beneath Yuma County, Arizona. This case in question
really frustrated Stringfield, quote, what seemed to be a case of great potential,
including the emergence of photographs of a saucer in military custody,
became less so with the passing of time. Following a series of alleged interferences,
my sources said they feared even greater consequences and backed off into oblivion,
end quote. Stringfield reckoned this case to either be a ploy or example of the lengths legacy
operations will go to silence and formance. Witness Pete, a former US Marine, claimed to
have photographed a saucer-like craft at the Naval installation in Yuma, Arizona in 1967.
Stringfield tried for months to meet Pete and his brother AF and organized to receive the photos
by mail. AF even claimed to have sent numerous letters to Stringfield that were likely intercepted.
Stringfield would speak to the men on the phone and learn Pete had been approached by some sort of
agency to stay quiet. An intriguing case to mention but a massive dead end for both Leonard
Stringfield and us. Our most fruitful case in Stringfield status reports can be found
in UFO crash retrieval status reports 3 under case A7. This case takes us to the Great Lakes
Naval Base in Northern Illinois in 1973. While we discuss this case, do keep in mind the Office
of Naval Research has a major Chicago department less than 40 miles away from the Great Lakes
Naval Station. Our encounter comes from one witness R.K., an E-4 grade instructor in Gunnery
School at the Great Lakes Naval Base from March 1973 to September 1974, destined for intelligence
school. I myself am aware of R.K.'s true name and am trying to vet this individual. On 14 July
1980, R.K. came to the House of Stringfield and relayed his encounter. In September 1973,
while instructor in Gunnery School, R.K. was assigned to guard the premises of a large
Quonset hut at Great Lakes Naval Base with orders not to let anybody within 100 yards.
While on duty, R.K. was approached by a naval officer who handed him a sealed envelope to
deliver to the commander in the Quonset hut. Entering the facility, R.K. observed a strange
metallic craft 30 feet in length and 10 feet in height resting on a wooden platform. According
to R.K., quote, it was light silvery blue and shimmering. It tapered like a teardrop with a flange
running along its topside from one end to the other and there were no windows, end quote. R.K.
could not linger in the hut due to the presence of other guards. Thus, he delivered the envelope
and returned to his post. R.K.'s encounter bore striking resemblance to the testimony of a sailor
he had met in San Diego just weeks prior whilst on special assignment. According to this sailor,
a UFO identical to the one R.K. would observe in the coming weeks at the Great Lakes Naval
Station was shot down by the Navy between Hawaii and the mainland in June of 1973.
This UFO was picked up via destroyer's radar and came into view making three close passes and one
direct overflight over the destroyer. According to the sailor, the UFO was shot with a lucky hit
and crashed into a 350 foot deep water. The San Diego sailor claimed the object was retrieved by
the Glomar Explorer and shipped to Hawaii and sent stateside and finally to Chicago.
The sailor even provided R.K. a sketch that was identical to what he had seen.
But just hold on a second here, the claims of the Glomar Explorer retrieving the craft
are of significant consequence here. Glomar was run by Nuro, a joint naval in CIA-DSNT effort.
If this story is true, this means the Navy, CIA, and intelligence organizations such as Nuro
downed a UFO and retrieved it from sea. The craft was then shipped to an ONR location where due to
being guarded on a wooden platform was likely destined for further transport and study. This
incident mirrors perfectly the 2024 claims of Chris Sharpe's informants.
Other cases of naval bases in the Office of Naval Research possessing both information of
crashed disks and the materials themselves are plenty. In 1994, former New Mexico State rep
J. Andrew Kissner stated sources within White Sands Proving Ground in the Naval Research Lab
briefed him on recovered flying disks in 1947. These disks were given to the custody of the
Atomic Energy Commission and studied by national laboratories such as Los Alamos, Sandia, Rand,
MITRE, etc. This is very similar to my modern-day hypothesis of DOE working alongside FFRDC and
to exploit UFO materials. According to Kissner's naval sources, the UFO programs were signed into
Presidential Executive Order under Truman in 1948 with the National Security Council
serving as program coordinator. With support from the Air Force Systems Command, the Research and
Development Board ran by Dr. Vannevar Bush in the Naval Research Lab. Interesting to note as well,
in 2005, USAF veteran Stephen Walker would claim while serving at the Naval Support Facility in
Diego Garcia, he was exposed to the Navy conducting sensitive operations outside of a large hangar
at the northern end of the airfield. Base personnel were ordered to stay away from this
quote-unquote empty hangar. One night while the flight line was evacuated, the base was locked
down and personnel were ordered to stay inside away from windows for the arrival of a classified
aircraft. Walker claimed that despite listening for the craft for nearly half an hour, he heard no
jet engine, no brakes, no tires hitting the pavement, no idling, or no Air Force sounds.
This experience is very interesting when analyzing the claims of Master Sergeant Edgar Fouchet,
who claimed UFO programs were moved out of Area 51 in the early 90s because of intensive scrutiny
from the public on Groom Lake. UFOs, especially the TR-3B Reverse Engineer Triangle programs,
were relocated to various installations including Dugway Proving Ground and Diego Garcia.
I must now circle back to early discussion of Neuro and reference back to U.S. Intelligence
Committee and discussion of Imogen and SIGINT collection from submarines, a program at one
time designated the Special Navy Control Program. Special Navy Control Program is quite similar
to something called the Navy Special Program or NSP. The NSP is a highly elusive naval office
that's similar to Neuro we can only find snippets of. The first ever mention I can find of the
Navy Special Program is in a 1974 Omnibus National Security Council Intelligence Directive alongside
the NRO. Remember, the NRO was not declassified until 1992, so this mention of the National
Reconnaissance Program, which is the direct funding mechanism for the NRO, is likely to obfuscate
the program. But what exactly is this Navy Special Program mentioned alongside the National
Reconnaissance Program, especially in the context of this NSCID, not wanting to bring
undue attention to both of these programs. Now since NRO was created between the Navy and CIA
DSNT, you may think Navy Special Program refers to NRO. However, the Navy Special Program is itself
a very real office. Indeed, the Navy Special Program office serves as an umbrella control
system for several naval clandestine undersea operations. However, in this context and due
to the extreme secrecy of NRO to this day as highlighted by Inman, NRO could have certainly
been rolled under the NSP. To further this thesis, we can look back to an 11 December 1975
declassified memo for the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence and others. Here we get a
keen look at the organizational structure of the Navy Special Program. The Navy Special Program was
once designated to run parallel to the National Reconnaissance Program or NRO under the Executive
Committee for the Director of Central Intelligence and the Assistant Secretary for Defense for
Intelligence. Someone really ought to ask Christopher Mellon about the Navy Special Program seen as he
himself served as former ASD slash I. The NSP, according to this memorandum, serves to act for
intelligence collection, similar to the NRO, DIA, or CIA. Having previously detailed the duties of
NRO, I do think this description means NRO is likely hidden within the NSP here, especially given the
timeframe 1975, where throughout our investigation we see NRO's activities really ramping up from
its creation in 1969 throughout the 70s. Therefore, with the Navy Special Program acting as an umbrella
office for numerous Navy clandestine operations, including possibly housing NRO, it is no stretch
to theorize a program that conducts undersea retrievals of anomalous craft alongside NRO
that sends such vehicles to the Office of Naval Research locations, to then be studied by federal
elements and defense contractors would be hidden within the NSP. These operations would be compartmented
and rolled under the Navy Special Program Office. This process for naval UFO legacy programs would
likely remain the same today. After all, as of 26 May 2023, we can find requests for approval
for special access program facilities by the Navy Special Program central office.
Naval legacy programs hidden within the NSP for extensive classification and compartmentalization
carry sound logic, especially when factoring in statements of former Rear Admiral Tim Gallaudet.
Admiral Gallaudet has spoken on congressional record that whilst he is aware of testimony of
naval UFO legacy programs, he did not directly encounter them or was not briefed during his
prestigious position within the Navy. We can find one intriguing acknowledged CIA program that
likely utilized the Navy Special Program, Project Palladium and its director Samuel Jean Poteet.
Poteet served at the NRO, CIA DS&T, as well as served as the technical director of the
Navy Special Program Office, where he provided naval reconnaissance systems expertise for the CIA
Directorate of Science and Technology. Poteet was a senior central intelligence agency scientific
intelligence officer, inventor, teacher, and association executive. He, quote, provided
scientific expertise on space and naval reconnaissance systems in the Directorate of Science and
Technology and served at the National Reconnaissance Office as technical director of the Navy Special
Program's office and as the executive director of the Intelligence Research and Development
Council, end quote. Under the CIA, Poteet spearheaded Project Palladium in the 1960s with
heavy use of naval assets, ships, and submarines. The project employed a variety of clandestine
submarines, radar reflectors, and jamming tactics to trick and gauge Soviet radar capabilities.
Essentially, Palladium performed to fill Soviet radar systems with fake UAP signatures. Of course,
our true interest here lies with Palladium's usage of clandestine subs and Poteet's connection
to the Navy Special Program Office. According to excellent researcher Jeff Cruikshank,
references to Project Palladium can be found in the Majestic 12 documents. The TERS memo,
dated 28 June 1961, is a majestic document Ryan and Robert Wood have rated with a moderate to high
authenticity. This memo allegedly sees JFK, right to the Director of Central Intelligence,
Alan Doliz, in a national security memorandum with the subject, quote,
review of MJ-12 intelligence operations as they relate to Cold War psychological warfare plans,
end quote. It is intriguing to see Alan Doliz did indeed meet with JFK twice, 28 June 1961.
Cruikshank argues the psychological warfare plans referenced in the TERS memo directly
reference Operation Palladium. Although Palladium didn't get its iconic name until April 1962,
when Dr. Albert Whelan took over as head of CIA, DS and T, the description of Palladium would appear
again in further majestic documents. And this is supported in the Medium Confidence Operation
Review, the MJ-12 project, allegedly written by Alan Doliz on 5 November 1961. This document
describes how the CIA was mapping the Soviet air defense system by using airborne electronic
countermeasure equipment and balloon decoys. Such a purpose was to provide a true picture of how
Soviet air defenses perceived UFOs. The memo discussed future similar psychological warfare
plans very similar to the TERS memo. Details of Project Palladium appearing in early MJ-12
documents dropped to Jamie Chandra in 1984 proved significant. Seen as according to an article
by Jean Petit in Stories of Intelligence Research, only six people knew about Palladium in the 1960s.
Since Palladium was not declassified until long after 1984, this implies whoever wrote the
select majestic documents was well aware or a part of Project Palladium. As a matter of fact,
the first time Palladium would be discussed was within a classified manner in a 1998 CIA
journal written about by the aforementioned Jean Petit. Historically, the Navy special program saw
heavy compartmentalization and incredibly strict need to know access. In this 29 October 1974 CIA
memo titled Clearances Held by NSIC or National Security Council Intelligence Committee Working
Group Members, discussion was held around National Security Council Working Group programs
overlapping certain compartmented areas of the Navy special program. For read-on access,
clearance requests were required for a redacted name and National Security Council member and CIA
officer Richard Ober. This NSC memo was sent just a few days after the NRO memo from 1974 we
discussed earlier. We can additionally analyze a fascinating 14 December 1984 memo written to US
Navy Rear Admiral and Director of Naval Intelligence John Butts. The memo thanks John for his personal
sacrifices in arranging meetings in spite of a tooth injury. The writer from within the staff of the
director of the intelligence community additionally informed Butts they had received a letter from
the secretary of the Navy John Layman concerning the Navy special program. Remembered Layman
additionally served as director of NRO. This letter apparently took a month to get to the
desk of the director of central intelligence. The writer additionally suggested John Butts
include a representative from Everett Heinemann's department on the redacted special ad hoc
requirements committee. Remember, Heinemann was labeled by Inman as the CIA DS&T member
knowledgeable on UFO legacy operations. The work here on the Navy special program is just the
beginning for me and the ties to other subjects we have covered today is extremely interesting.
After all, I have found and attempted to contact numerous former Navy special program personnel.
These include a man who served for three years as a diver in the Navy special program with the
mobile diving and salvage unit one. I have also contacted one Mr. P. R. who served for eight years
as project lead for Navy special program office and SOCOM acquisition program office. How interesting
this ties into the work of Chris Sharp regarding USO retrievals the Navy and SOCOM especially
intriguing seen as sharp implicated Lockheed Martin dry submersible as participating in USO
retrieval and since 2023 SOCOM has declared operational capability with Lockheed Martin dry
submersible. And finally, I have contacted one Mr. WH who served for two years as an
office of Naval intelligence chief information security officer for the Navy special program.
And please understand, I am protecting the identity of these individuals as they very
well may wish to speak on the NSP. Believe it or not, today we have only scratched the surface
of naval UFO legacy programs. In the beginning of this project, I separated naval legacy programs
into four distinct categories monitor, collect, store and exploit. Of course, monitor has been
emitted from today's discussion as has majorly exploit has the Navy successfully created seafaring
ARV a deep sea equivalent to the flux liner. This of course will be another topic for another day.
Today, we've investigated the Navy special program office and Office of Naval Research
conducting undersea UFO and USO crash retrievals alongside SOCOM private entity such as Lockheed
Martin and Woods Hole and intelligence organizations such as the NRO, NRO and CIA DS&T. We have also
discussed myriad senior naval officials such as Sumner Shapiro, Bobby Ray Inman and Nat Kobitz
who have all commented on the existence of crash retrieval and material exploitation programs.
We have barely begun to dive in and discuss the FFRDC's Naval UARCs and DOD RDT&E facilities
that are highly likely involved with naval UFO legacy programs. Outside of mention of Lockheed,
Woods Hole and SAIC, we have barely even discussed contractors in UFO legacy operations. Outside of
sole source contracts, we have yet to really even dive into how legacy operations within the
Navy are funded. I have spoken before on witness Ed who claimed the existence of a joint UFO reverse
engineering program between Edwards Air Force Base and the Nevada Test and Training Range.
After his service at Edwards, Ed would proceed to work at the Pentagon for the Air Force's RDT&E
panel chain where he would claim in two separate years 34 and 40 billion dollars disappeared to
non-authorized transfer of authority funds. Ed would additionally work as liaison between
the Pentagon and various defense contractors as an F-35 program subject matter expert.
As a test director for an electronics warfare group dealing with reverse engineered UFOs out
of the Edwards 412th test group, I have theorized Ed's work on the F-35 also dealt with anomalous
technologies. This is no stretch as the F-35 program has historically carried an incredibly
bloated budget of two trillion dollars. Such bloated budgets with backdoor clandestine UFO
programs may have also occurred in the Navy and we may get a keen look at such an instance.
In 1985, the U.S. Navy faced a massive controversy for an incredibly bizarre occurrence.
Scandal arose when in 85 it was discovered the U.S. Navy had paid Grumman Aerospace Corporation
$660 apiece for ashtrays to be included in the E2C Hawkeye. The Navy only began to investigate
how many of these ashtrays had been bought and why they cost so much when an investigator for the
House Government Operations Committee discovered this egregious oversight. From this investigation,
it had also been determined the Navy was paying Grumman $400 per socket wrench that were used
to adjust the seats of F-14s and the Navy had also increased payments for ground locks from $102
in 1982 to $2,710 a year later. Shockingly, this investigation would also reveal years prior the
Navy had been charging itself $954 for ashtrays. For such infractions, Defense Secretary Casper
Weinberger, who made some contested statements about Neuroabove, removed three officers prior
to any investigation, and Grumman aircraft wind that peace prices were so high due to needing
to make a small number of parts to spec. The damage had been done, leading to House Committee
investigators looking into larger naval contracts and discovered, for example, profits on aircraft
carrier contracts were in excess of $753 million or 29.7% and contractor profits on a single Trident
735 submarine were in excess of $96 million or 22%. Where was all this excess money on
contracts and parts going? I wager since we are discussing contractors such as Grumman,
which I have directly implicated in UFO legacy programs before its merger with Northrop. These
funds were siphoned off legitimate contracts or parts to fund clandestine deep-sixed UFO
crash retrieval and material exploitation programs. So after all of this, today has mostly served as
an expose into naval legacy crash retrieval operations and necessary logistics. More and
more in my videos, I plan to speak on naval and special USO legacy programs. This is due to multiple
sources of mine informing me Navy USO programs are more secretive than even standard UFO legacy
operations. Hey guys, it's Gerb and thank you so very much for sticking through with me while we
took this dive into the US Navy and UFO and USO legacy program operations. Now as I said at the
very end of this video from multiple individuals that have worked in legacy programs to our tangentially
aware of them have informed me that the US Navy's programs are the most secretive there are. Why is
this? Is it because the Navy deals with weapons technology as in the Randy Anderson case with
the gauntlet and the orb that supposedly experienced energetic discharge during recovery? Or is it
because the Navy specifically the ONR is a pristine stop for craft? Or is it because the
transmedium capabilities of UFO are the most coveted aspect of material exploitation and monitoring?
Or is it possibly because some of the secrecy stems from the possibility there are undersea UFO
bases and inherently if this is where some craft are stationed and departing from this implies
much secrecy? And that sort of makes a little sense as we've seen with Nuro underwater reconnaissance
underwater reconnaissance systems clandestine submarines are some of the United States most
highly regarded secrets. We have five major intelligence agencies the CIA, DIA, NSA, one of
my missing NRO and NGA and but Nuro is not on there and we've seen and proven today that Nuro
does exist. So why is Nuro not listed? Nuro is really what kicked off my investigation into
this subject back in September with the work of Chris Sharp. When he detailed and changed the
article about undersea retrievals in the ONR, JSOC, SOCOM, Lockheed Martin Woods Hole and Nuro,
this really kicked off my interest. One of the most intriguing aspects of this project of course
was Bobby Ray Inman, a regular of this channel admitting that he was director of Nuro.
And I'm really glad we got to explore a little bit more into Inman and his interactions with
Eschler and Bobby and sorry, excuse me, Everett or R. Evan Heineman as well as Sumner Shapiro.
Again, as I stated, I've received no contact back from Heineman and I've also tried to contact
Shapiro's family. They have not gotten back to me either. I would like to get statements from
some other people surrounding this case, but Nuro really kicked off this operation. And as
we've seen with Nuro, as a black program agency, all of its operations have been shrouded in secrecy.
Whether this entails usage of the Glomar Explorer, the Halibut, the NR Run, NR One, the Seawolf,
there is so much secrecy surrounding Nuro and that bridges really perfectly into the 1991
retrieval case under witness mark. Now, as I said in the video too, I'm still vetting this case.
I'm working with some individuals to try to identify mark to try to identify the naval
lieutenant commander and trying to track down those original sketches. I know Art Bell has passed
away and he was the point of contact for both of these. But I am trying to track that down.
So mark story involves a DSRV or as I hypothesized from Craven and the work under the DSSP,
a DSSV, Deep Submergence Search Vehicle. I think those depth capabilities and mechanical arms
and rigging for retrieval of craft suit a DSSV more than a DSRV because DSRV was specifically
created for transfer of crew from a submarine where a DSSV was specifically tailored, never built,
to retrieve vehicles and to retrieve items. I did this fall under Project Sand Dollar.
As we saw with Project Sand Dollar under Craven as well,
Sand Dollar involved items of interest on the sea floor of particular interest were radioactive
or nuclear emitting items. And as we see in Mark's case, the original side scan from vessels
and other vessels that picked up the signature of the craft, this was emitting some sort of
radiation to the point where the DSRV crew initially thought this to be a downed Korean or
Russian aircraft with some sort of nuclear technology. And it is interesting to see as
Mark said he steamed out of Virginia that the 2011 Fukushima documents detail that DSRV units
were ready and able in the east and west coast of the United States. So let's talk about that
incident a bit more because it's very rare we can ever find an undersea retrieval. The only
other example I can think of is Shag Harbor which occurred in 1967 and I would like to tackle that
case in the future, especially because there is testimony of the US Navy kind of coming in the
US Navy divers and coming in and really taking over the retrieval operation. But Mark's DSRV
crew observes a triangle. And as I said in the video, and as we talk about in this channel quite
often, I oftentimes attribute human origin to triangular craft, whether this be the TR-3B,
the XF-131 Super Sentinel, which I almost put more credence in than the TR-3B or other prototypes
that we discussed throughout the 80s and 90s in the TR-3B video. But this craft featured
hieroglyphic like writing alongside its outer edge, which, similar to Kecksburg and Danny
Sheehan's accounts, is not rare but not common in UFO crash retrieval incidents. The description
of this craft is very similar to other NHI craft, no landing gear, no mechanical systems,
no cockpit, no glass, no windows, etc. What interests me is the aftermath of the retrieval.
Mark states that after the marine archaeologist and four dives were able to observe the craft and
they were able to get it off the ground and retrieve it, that after a couple hours Mark
and his crew were steamed off site and were never warned not to speak about this incident,
warned not to talk about it or sign further NDAs. Now Mark inherently had to sign NDAs and
non-disclosure agreements for his work on DSRV, which as we know from John Pena Craven were sent
almost exclusively on clandestine operations, so it stands to reason there's a heavy amount
of secrecy when you sign on for this crew. But it almost appears as if the steamer of the LPH
vessel that discovered the craft in the DSRV was still trying to figure out what the heck they
had uncovered because it took a couple hours for Mark and his crew to be steamed off site
and they were never briefed on the incident, debriefed or discussed it further. I do hope Mark
is still alive and I would like to speak to him, I very much would. And then what is interesting
with Nuro as well as the connection to the 1973 Great Lakes Naval Station case, of course Stringfield
published on this back in the 80s, so the Glomar Explorer and its work with Nuro wasn't very well
known, if at all at this time, the Glomar Explorer had been known for Project Azorian retrieving one
third of the Soviet K-129 submarine, but just the connection of witness JK stating that the
San Diego sailor that he met that saw basically the same craft he saw had told him that it had been
shot down between Hawaii and the mainland by a destroyer and retrieved by the Glomar Explorer,
and this was early 1973. And then there's fascinating connections that Bobby Ray Inman
stated that in the early 70s, 72 to 74 to be exact, he became aware of the Glomar's activities out in
Hawaii. So there's a lot of really connective tissue here with these statements and I know
I say this in most videos, but our work with the Navy is really just beginning here. There are so
many more facilities we need to look at, so much more investigation into China Lake, because the
Navy and if Chris Sharpe's reporting is correct, the O&R specifically is almost a staging point for
housing craft. Now this makes me wonder, is this, does the Air Force, if they retrieve a craft or
the Army, if they retrieve a craft, do they initially stage at naval locations to then be
transported again? Does the Navy just satisfy naval UFO legacy programs for storage of craft,
or do they also operate alongside Army and Air Force? This would surprise me, as everything I
have been told, investigated and seen, is that Army, Air Force, and Navy almost act siloed,
very different programs, sometimes doing the same thing, but almost no communication to
adhere to the compartmentalization of these programs, where only the intelligence community
overlords really know what's going on between programs. So that would be really interesting
to track down. But anyways guys, if anybody watching this video has any experiences or
connections with individuals who have retrieved undersea craft or know of stories of undersea
craft retrieval, please contact me and I would love to speak to you. But let me know what you
guys think in the comments. This was a wonderful project for me to pursue, and I really hope
everybody enjoyed it. Let me know what you think, if you have any thoughts, comments,
things to add, please remember to like and subscribe. I have a Patreon, I don't gatekeep
content, that's not what I do. Only support what you think the channel is worth, and I
will catch everybody on the next episode. Thank you so much, and see you later.